Game Design Overview Document

	Features:
	The game features competitive split-screen multiplayer gameplay, which sees two players attempting to eliminate each other using various projectiles while navigating a 3D space. The game begins with a start menu, which allows each player to select their ship type, affecting their sprite and secondary weapon, view their respective controls, and start the game. The playspace features a black hole, around which the players are placed, located in the center of an invisible box. The black hole will increment the velocity of any players, by an amount inversely proportional to the player’s distance from the black hole. The game features full 3D movement, allowing the players to rotate on any axis, accelerate forward, and decrease their velocity and angular velocity. Each player has, on their heads-up display, a meter representing their ship’s fuel, which decrements when the player accelerates. When the bar is depleted, the player will be unable to accelerate. Each player will also have an indicator that appears on screen when their opponent is in view, highlighting their opponent. Players can instantiate projectiles, which travel at a fixed rate, and can interact with players and other objects. Players also have access to a secondary weapon, selected at the beginning of each game. These weapons include a bomb, which explodes, creating a large temporary hitbox, after traveling a set distance, a lazer, which acts as a “hitscan” weapon, and a drone, which periodically fires bullets of its own. When a player comes into contact with a projectile, the black hole, or the wall, both players will lose access to their controls, and text will appear on the screen stating which player has won, and the input to restart the game. If this input is utilized, the game will restart from the beginning.
	Development Process:
	The initial idea for the game was for it to be a 3D clone of the 1960s game Spacewar!, the first computer game to be played at multiple locations. The original intentions were to replicate its simplicity and strategic gameplay while adding new dimensions, figuratively and literally, to the game. The first goal in the development of the game was to implement the core features of the game: the two players with their controls, split-screen cameras, and the black hole, as this process would for the recognition of any design challenges that would need to be overcome. It was found that the controls, while simple, were somewhat unintuitive, and thus quality of life features were implemented: bullet homing, allowing for easier resolutions to gameplay, and the addition of an indicator to the opponent, to make them easier to see. Upon improving the user experience, it was decided that some features to enhance the overall experience of the product should be added, including meshes for significant objects, a texture for the skybox, and sound effects, which were obtained from the Unity asset store. After the prototype submission, it was decided that the project should be expanded to provide an enhanced gameplay experience. A start menu was added to the game, as well as three player classes, selectable by each player at the beginning of the game, which change their meshes and give them access to a secondary weapon.
	Contributions:
The following tutorials were used to help implement features:
Unity 3D - Laser Tutorial was used to learn how to use raycasts and line generators. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TokDH2OSiBE&ab_channel=Dogma427 
How to make a Homing Missile with Trajectory Prediction helped me work with rotations, especially relating to the bullets. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Z6qBeuN-H1M&ab_channel=Tarodev
Position your UI, using screen space! was useful for learning about screen space UI and its implementation. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7XVSLpo97k0
How to make a Offscreen Target Indicator in Unity introduced me to the GeometryUtility.CalculateFrustumPlanes() method, which allowed me to fix a small UI bug. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gAQpR1GN0Os&ab_channel=digijin
